In this video, I'm going to cover 20
lessons I've learned from managing over
$3 million a month in ads. My goal is
that this video saves you a lot of
frustration and wasted ad budget. If
you're new to the channel, I'm Sylvia
Perez. I'm the founder of Ad Conversion.
We teach 8,000 plus B2B marketers how to
master ads and manage over $3 million a
month in ad spend for top B2B SAS
brands. If you're serious about making
B2B ads work, watch this video until the
end. Okay, let's kick off with lesson
number one, and that's having no defined
strategy. This is a core reason why most
people fail with ads. They just go into
it like throwing spaghetti at the wall
and hoping something sticks. You know,
they're not really thinking about each
channel, the strengths of the channel,
where it's stronger in terms of driving
awareness versus conversion. They're not
taking into consideration the cost of
the channel in relation to their goals
and what they need to make it work. It's
just there's no real thought. It's just
I launch a campaign, I didn't see any
leads, and then I paused the campaign
and I never tried it again. So, if
that's you, like you need a clearly
defined strategy. A strategy is a plan.
It's it defines what is success or
failure look like. What are your leading
and your lagging KPIs? So, how do I know
if I'm things are working within a 7 to
14-day period? How do I know if they're
working after a 14-day period? How does
what am I doing right now connect to the
next thing? So, this is where that this
concept of fullfunnel paid media comes
into it. This is really important for
B2B specifically. But not having a clear
strategy is like the first pitfall that
most brands fall into. The second lesson
is having little to no reporting that
connects campaigns to pipeline. This is
where you are just trusting in platform
metrics. Google ads says you're crushing
it. LinkedIn says you influenced over a
million dollars in pipeline, but when
you check your bank and you check your
CRM, you don't see anything. This is
where you cannot overindex on just what
the ad platforms tell you. They are
biased. They are going to optimize
towards giving themsel the most credit.
You need to make sure that you connect
your campaigns to pipeline in order to
get the full picture of what's
happening. The third lesson is having a
lack of patience in relation to your
sales cycle or your strategy. If you
have a three-month sales cycle and
you're expecting deals to close in a
14-day period, that's obviously
unrealistic. However, uh if you have a
three-month sales cycle and you're not
seeing deals close for 9 months, that's
also bad. So, just having the right
expectations where you're giving your
campaigns enough time in relation to
your sales cycle is really important. So
if it takes you 3 months to close a
deal, then give yourself 3 months to
actually see a deal close from your
campaign initiatives from now and 3
months into the future. The same is true
with your strategy. If you're focusing
on awareness and building brand affinity
and trust, that's obviously going to
take faster to manifest in terms of
direct conversions or pipeline versus if
you're going after solutionaware high
intent individuals and you're just
trying to convert them right away. So
set your expectations accordingly to
your sales cycle and your strategy.
Okay, the next lesson is blind
optimizations due to ineffective
conversion tracking. This kind of
connects to my last lesson where you
want to make sure you set up the right
conversion events so the ad platforms
get smarter over time. Ideally, you want
to do this based on offline conversion
tracking or server side tracking where
you're pushing conversion events from
your CRM into the ad manager. So, for
example, maybe uh you don't care about
leads, but you care about meetings
booked. And meetings booked is a stage
that's being tracked in your CRM. So,
you can connect that to Google ads, to
LinkedIn ads, to meta ads, and you can
send that as a conversion event back
into the ad manager. So, as the
performance marketer or the media buyer,
you can make better decisions on when
you pause ads or when you increase
budget based on real signals and not
just inflated phantom conversion metrics
based on the pixel or just irrelevant
conversion events that are actually
connect to the business. The fifth
lesson is trusting ad reps and their
suggestions without question. I kind of
hate that I had to put this in here
anyways, but this is like a real
problem. Uh, so many people just trust
ad reps. It just blows my mind. Like
they I'm not saying all ad reps are bad.
There are some great reps out there. But
it's like going to the casino and giving
the casino all your money and saying
like, "Hey, can you look after this for
me?" Like that's basically what people
do with ad reps and taking the advice
from these ad platforms. Like these
people make money regardless of if you
are successful or not. That's really
important. So definitely take their
opinions as exactly that, opinions, but
don't treat it as fact. And I think
where people go wrong, especially on
like platforms like Google, is they just
trust what the reps have to say blindly.
They apply all of their recommendations,
regardless if it makes business sense
for you and your nuances, and then they
just blow up their ad accounts. So
regardless if it's reps, agencies,
consultants, whoever, take everything as
an opinion until you have data to back
it up as a fact. The sixth lesson is
over reliance on a single channel tactic
or ad type. You definitely do not want
to have all your eggs in one basket. The
one thing I can promise you about ads is
eventually it will stop working. So, if
all of your eggs are in one channel
tactic or ad type, eventually it's going
to lose its effectiveness over time, and
you're going to be in a really bad
position if you had all of your eggs in
that specific thing. So, you want to
create diversification with your ad
strategy. One small tactical tip here is
allocate at least 10 to 20% of your
monthly ad budget towards
experimentation. And I'm not talking
about microexperimentation on things
that are working. I'm talking about net
new innovation where you're
experimenting new things that you've
never tried before. Whether that be new
channels, tactics or ad types so you can
create more reliance and consistability
in terms of if one single thing goes
down the whole strategy doesn't collapse
on itself. The seventh lesson is failure
to stay omnipresent due to poor
remarketing. Especially when it comes to
B2B, we are talking long sales cycles.
Uh for context, like we had a client
that was in the government space. They
sold drones to the armed forces. Story
for another day. And we're talking 24 to
36 month sales cycles. 24 to 36 month
sales cycles. That's 2 to 3 years. Can
you imagine waiting that long for a deal
to close? But when that deal close, man,
you've paid for your ad budget for
years. Uh and when it comes to B2B, just
staying part of the mental consideration
set. So when that buyer is ready to make
a decision, they think of you as a
potential option. And having omniresence
across channels is really important. So
you can create this perception in the
mind of your prospect where they see you
as bigger than you might actually be.
Meaning if they go to Meta, they see
you. If they go to LinkedIn, they see
you. If they go to YouTube, they see
you. In their mind, they think you must
be a massive company spending hundreds
of thousands of dollars in ads when in
reality you might just have a really
focused remarketing audience and you're
spending, you know, a,000 bucks a day
across multiple platforms. Lesson number
eight is spreading budget across way too
many campaigns. We call this budget
dilution. Uh this is something that the
bigger companies typically fall into and
they mistake activity with impact where
they're just launching things and they
fall into the concept of checking boxes
versus taking a step back and actually
seeing wait a second do we have enough
budget so that we can learn fast enough
to make iterations and better decisions.
And then based on those learnings, those
iterations of decisions, we double down
on what we just learned and we repeat
the cycle again and again in terms of
iterations. And really what they do is
they spread their budgets so thin
because they're constantly launching net
new initiatives, net new campaigns,
trying to support multiple people
internally, playing the political game
of just launching things because people
ask for it. And all of this ends up to
you not having enough budget and just
spreading yourself out way too thin. So,
this is a big one. If you're a big
company, you know, you're probably
nodding your head at this. Uh just a
quick guard rail you can set for
yourself is do not have less than $50 a
day in daily budget for any given
campaign. Doesn't mean you can't make it
work with less, but you want to learn
fast so you can move on and iterate. So
this just a good general rule of thumb.
Lesson number nine is trying to create
demand in a way that you cannot
operationally support. So this is a bit
more nuanced and contextual but just to
kind of explain this is if you are
trying to create demand through content
and you really want to focus on
promoting content and feed getting that
content consumed and then retargeting
people who consume that content and then
trying to drive conversions through
that. But in reality you don't really
have a content team internally and your
content sucks but that's what you're
trying to do to create demand. you can't
operationally support it yet or for
example you are trying to scale across
multiple segments from mid-market
enterprise SMB but in reality 80% of
your business comes from SMB and you
haven't really figured out mid-market or
enterprise yet and now you're already
trying to use ads uh and expecting a
certain result when instead you should
be using ads as a way to validate your
hypothesis if there's actual demand
there for you or not and what's the
right messaging and then leaning into
it. So really what I'm getting at here
is you are putting the cart before the
horse. So just make sure whatever your
strategy is in terms of how you're going
to go to market, you can actually
operationally support it. And the one
thing I'll really just stress here is
there's nothing wrong with starting
small. Nine times out of 10, you're
going to actually have a better result
if you start small. And when I mean
small, I don't mean like small in terms
of your efforts. I mean small in terms
of your focus. you're narrowing your
focus and you're creating a priority to
go after versus diluting it and trying
to do things before you're ready for it.
Lesson number 10 is judging performance
of all campaigns equally regardless of
the stage or the objective. I really
struggle when people ask me vague
questions like is this a good campaign?
Really do because everything is
contextual depending on the circumstance
that you're looking at it from or the
lens that you're looking at it from. So
for example, I cannot measure success of
my campaigns that are focusing on
awareness as I would the same of my
campaigns that are focusing on
conversion. I say this out loud and
you're probably shaking your head and
you're like, "Duh, that's obvious." But
you would be shocked at the amount of
people who in practice completely forget
this. So just remember when you're
putting together your strategy, however
you do that segmentation,
make sure you define your KPIs for that
stage of your funnel. So for us at AC
conversion, we use the five stages
model. I teach this in our building a
paid media program course if you want to
learn more. And essentially it's create,
capture, accelerate, revive, and expand.
This is how uh our take on fullfunnel
strategy for B2B. We don't like to use
tofu mofu boofu because with B2B once
the conversion happens the journey isn't
over. It's really the first step. And if
I'm talking about campaigns that are
focusing on the create stage that are
trying to build brand affinity and trust
the objectives that I use, the metrics
that I use will be different than if I'm
focusing on capture where I'm trying to
convert interest from inmarket buyers.
So the key lesson here is you want to
make sure you just understand in what
container and what context in what stage
do these campaigns belong and what are
the leading and the lagging indicators
that I can use to make sure I optimize
and make decisions on a day in dayout
basis. Just wanted to take a quick
second and say if you're loving this
video, you are going to absolutely love
our free courses here at
adconversion.com.
You can sign up for free and master
Google, Reddit, LinkedIn ads, and more.
Seriously free. If you don't believe us,
just check out our wall of love here and
our reviews. You can hear from 8,000
blessed B2B marketers. Our goal with ad
conversion is we want to build the place
to go to master B2B ads, the one place
online that you can go and learn from
credible people and not get ripped off
in the process. So, if you're interested
in this and you're loving this video,
you will definitely love our courses.
The 11th lesson is chasing the next
strategy when you fail to execute the
existing one. This is where you are
falling into shiny object syndrome where
you're just looking for the next thing.
Uh where this comes up is I'll hear
people say things like this every now
and then where they'll be like, "Oh,
we've scaled LinkedIn ads. There's
nothing more to be done on LinkedIn."
Sometimes it's true, but more times than
not it's not true. There's so much more
to do on the existing strategy that
you're implementing. So just make sure
that whatever it is that you're doing,
you have truly done all that you can.
You have maximized not just the return
on investment, but the return on effort
and you've really done all that is
possible before you jump onto the next
thing. Because what it takes to make
LinkedIn ads work is different from what
it takes to make meta ads work.
Different from YouTube ads, different
from um Capterra ads, different from
Google ads. All of these channels have
nuances and there's levels of scale
depending on your total addressable
market in your industry. So, just make
sure that you really have done all that
you can before you check the box and you
add the next thing. The 12th lesson is
letting underperforming campaigns and
ads run way too long. Uh there's a great
saying my friend Yonber Becker who's the
instructor of our LinkedIn ads courses
says and he's says the concept of
killing your darlings. you want to kill
the campaigns or the ads that are no
longer serving you. And unfortunately,
we get emotional and we, you know, for
whatever reason, we're like, "Hey, I
really like this ad. I'm going to just
let it run." And you just let it run,
you know, one week turns into two weeks,
turns into a month, turns into three
months. Before you know it, you've lost
$10,000. So, just don't let
underperforming campaigns or ads run for
way too long. Set a schedule in terms of
reviewing your campaigns. Even better,
use uh our tool at sami.bot where you
can set up automated workflows to do
this for you. But just be proactive and
pause underperforming campaigns or ads
so you don't run into this trout. The
13th lesson is making decisions solely
based on what you see inside the ad
platforms. The ad platforms are biased.
Uh depending on their pixels, they're
going to over assign credit. And really,
you don't want to be in the situation
that we see more times than not where
you go into Google Ads, Google Ads says
you have, you know, 30 conversions, 30,
let's call them demo requests, but then
you go into your CRM and you only have
three. It doesn't line up, it doesn't
connect. So, you want to make sure that
regardless of whatever conversion
tracking you set up, you're always
backtracking to your CRM because your
CRM is your source of truth to
understand your real performance.
Ideally, you set up offline conversion
tracking where you're pushing serverside
events from your CRM to your ad
platforms. So, your CRM is making your
ad channels more intelligent, aka you're
feeding Google's algorithm with higher
quality conversion data or meta,
LinkedIn, etc. Uh, so you can make
better decisions. But the key thing I
wanted to focus on here is don't just
trust and rely on what you see in the
platforms to make your decisions. Lesson
14 is not validating the quality of your
audience targeting before scaling. This
is a big mistake, especially in B2B.
We're interested in very specific people
and sometimes not just specific people,
but where those people work, which makes
it even more complicated. So, in
context, what this looks like is if you
haven't proven the audience quality
first on the given tactic or channel,
don't scale it further. So for example,
if I'm getting started with YouTube ads
for the first time and I'm not very
confident if I can reach my ideal
customer, I should probably validate
that first. Get some leads, see the
names, the quality of the titles, etc.
See what comes inbound and then once I
get that validation, now I can actually
scale this. The 15th lesson is designing
ads that don't connect your capabilities
to a clear pain point. So often we fall
into the trap of broadcasting on paid
social where we're just talking about
our company in the third person. It's
very vague. It's very nebulous and we're
not really showing people what are the
real problems that we can solve and how
our product actually solves it.
Specificity is your best friend in the
age of skepticism. The more specific you
can be, the more clear you can make it
for people and you can show them
specific use cases and how those use
cases tied to specific pain points, the
more urgency and motivation you're going
to create in terms of driving action so
people want to click on your ads and
later convert from it. So make sure that
you focus on talking about the
capabilities of your product and focus
on specific pain points and tell that
story of how you can actually make the
lives of your prospects better. The 16th
lesson is scaling and killing campaigns
purely based on emotions and not logic.
The way we see advertising is we are
investors and we think like investors
and we execute like scientists. And
similar to investors where they have
rules and an investment thesis on when
they're willing to buy shares, when
they're willing to sell shares, the same
is true for advertisers. The difference
is we don't buy and sell stocks. We buy
and sell ads and we day trade attention
in the form of ads. So when our ad
performs at a certain amount, we scale
it. When it underperforms at a certain
amount, we kill it. It's black and it's
white. It's quantitative. And this is
how you can really scale ads to the next
level based on logic and not emotions.
The 17th lesson is driving traffic to a
landing page that has not been
optimized. This is massive specifically
in B2B. Folks are over obsessing over
traffic and audience targeting to their
detriment. where I'm I'm talking one
experience here that comes to mind is
there was this one company that was
spending 250k a month on Google ads and
they had a conversion rate of 0.89%
across their account 0.89%.
And they came to us and they were asking
us questions like what's the ideal
bidding strategy on Google ads? How
should we segment our campaigns? and
these types of questions which yes it
matters and there's a point to it but
the bigger area of opportunity is the
conversion rate. Your landing pages are
half your success. So just by
implementing a few small changes to the
hero section they were able to increase
their conversion rate from 0.89% to 3%
after the first experiment. That just
shows how insane the optimizations and
the gains are to be had from just
optimizing your landing pages. And 3% is
still not a good conversion rate. And
there's more work to be done. But just
goes to show that the bar is so low. So
don't fall into the trap of overindexing
on the traffic to the point where you
completely ignore your landing pages.
The 18th lesson is failing to refresh
creatives fast enough and review
performance. Your ads need love and
attention. And when you get logical
about your optimizations, one of the
things that you're going to find out
really fast, so for for context, um when
we started to use Sammy, so Sammy allows
us to build automated workflows to
optimize our ads 24 hours a day. And
once we started to use Sammy and Sammy
was checking every hour on the hour,
looking at our ads performance and
killing the ones that are
underperforming, we quickly realized
that we needed to refresh our ads a lot
faster than we were previously. And most
brands fall into the trap of having very
slow creative refresh cycles. Your ads
need what they need. It is what it is.
Like if they're underperforming, you
have to refresh them and get new ads
into the mix. assuming your audience is
good to actually move the needle in
terms of improving your results. So you
have to do what is required sometimes
not what you're just able. The 19th
lesson is having unrealistic
expectations or targets from poor budget
forecasting. So what this looks like in
practice is your CFO is asking for a
cost per opportunity of $500 and when
you run the math you realize like that's
just not going to happen, right? It's
just the cost of the media is too high
and your conversion effectiveness is too
low. So basically what you want to do
here is you just want to ground in
reality and you want to work from the
business goal backwards to get a better
sense of what is possible and what is
not possible. So that way you're
fighting a winnable fight from the the
get- go and not setting yourself up for
failure. Okay. Finally, the 20th lesson
is the lack of strategic and operational
support to execute effectively. You need
what you need in order to scale a
fullfunnel pay media program. This takes
an army to do this. I don't think a lot
of people realize like how much work it
takes to actually make ads work. And
this is why agencies exist. This is why
full in-house teams exist. And depending
on the level of complexity of what
you're going after, you need to design a
team that can support you. There are
three core pillars to a great
performance marketing program or
initiative. Uh one is performance. The
second is creative and the third one is
data. These are the three pillars that
are really important to scaling a
fullfunnel paid media program. On the
performance side, you really want to
make sure you have seasoned performance
marketing experts that are wellversed in
the channels that they're optimizing and
they're trained in those channels
because channels are different. Uh in
addition to this, you want to make sure
you have a good creative team that can
support you with the amount of ads that
you need or landing page iterations. And
then finally, you need data. Data is
insanely valuable from a conversion
tracking and a reporting standpoint so
you can connect your ad activities to
your back-end business impact and make
sure you're optimizing based on what
actually makes sense for your business.
Hope this video was valuable. Be sure to
give this video a thumbs up. Really
helps us grow our reach as a small
channel. And subscribe so you can be
notified of future videos. When you're
ready, check out adconversion.com
and join our community of 8,000 plus B2B
marketers and master ads with our free
courses. Thanks so much.